Add RabbitMQ plugin (#6554)
vividus-framework/vividus: docs/modules/plugins/pages/plugin-rabbitmq.adoc

= RabbitMQ Plugin

> The plugin integrates with https://www.rabbitmq.com/[RabbitMQ] using https://spring.io/projects/spring-amqp[Spring AMQP] `RabbitTemplate` for publishing and synchronous retrieval of messages over plain AMQP (no TLS in this plugin).

Reviewer: users are not needed to know the implementation details

:plugin-short-name: rabbitmq
include::partial$plugin-installation.adoc[]

== Properties

You can define any number of broker connections. Each connection is identified by a *broker key* you choose (first segment after `rabbitmq.`). That key is passed as `$brokerKey` in the steps.

NOTE: The broker key must not contain dots; property names use the pattern `rabbitmq.<broker-key>.<setting>`.

[cols="4,2,1,3", options="header"]
|===
|Property name
|Acceptable values
|Default
|Description

|`rabbitmq.<broker-key>.host`
|hostname or IP
|`localhost`
|RabbitMQ server host.

|`rabbitmq.<broker-key>.port`
|port number
|

> |Server port. When omitted, the plugin does not set a port; the RabbitMQ Java client default applies.

Reviewer: the last statement is not clear for users

|`rabbitmq.<broker-key>.username`
|string
|
|Authentication username.

|`rabbitmq.<broker-key>.password`
|string
|

> |Authentication password. Empty values are ignored (the password setter is not applied).

Reviewer: what is setter for users?

|`rabbitmq.<broker-key>.virtual-host`
|string
|

> |Virtual host (e.g. `/`).

Reviewer: what is it?

|===

.Local broker
[source,properties]
----
rabbitmq.local.host=localhost
rabbitmq.local.port=5672
rabbitmq.local.username=guest
rabbitmq.local.password=guest
rabbitmq.local.virtual-host=/
----

.Hosted broker (example broker key `cloudamqp`; set `port` to the plain AMQP port your provider exposes, if any)
[source,properties]
----
rabbitmq.cloudamqp.host=YOUR_INSTANCE.lmq.cloudamqp.com
rabbitmq.cloudamqp.port=5672
rabbitmq.cloudamqp.username=YOUR_USER
rabbitmq.cloudamqp.password=YOUR_PASSWORD
rabbitmq.cloudamqp.virtual-host=YOUR_VHOST
----

== Steps

=== Publish message

> Publishes a string body via `RabbitTemplate#convertAndSend(String routingKey, Object)`, using the AMQP default exchange (Spring `RabbitTemplate` default).

Reviewer: no technical details

[source,gherkin]
----

> When I publish RabbitMQ message `$message` using `$brokerKey` with routing key `$routingKey`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When I publish message `$message` with routing key `$routingKey` to RabbitMQ broker `$brokerKey`
```

----

* `$message` - The message body (string).
* `$brokerKey` - The broker key from the <<_properties,properties>>.
* `$routingKey` - The routing key (for the default exchange, this is usually the queue name).

.Publish to a queue via the default exchange
[source,gherkin]
----
When I publish RabbitMQ message `hello` using `cloudamqp` with routing key `my-queue`
----

=== Retrieve message

Waits up to the given timeout, receives one message from the queue with `RabbitTemplate#receiveAndConvert`, converts the body to a string, and stores it in a variable. If no message arrives in time, the variable is set to `null`.

[source,gherkin]
----

> When I retrieve RabbitMQ message from queue `$queue` using `$brokerKey` with `$timeout` timeout to $scopes variable `$variableName`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When I retrieve message from queue `$queue` of RabbitMQ broker `$brokerKey` with `$timeout` timeout and save it to $scopes variable `$variableName`
```

----

* `$queue` - The queue name.
* `$brokerKey` - The broker key from the <<_properties,properties>>.

> * `$timeout` - The maximum wait time in {durations-format-link} format.

Reviewer: what is waited?

* `$scopes` - xref:commons:variables.adoc#_scopes[The comma-separated set of variable scopes].

> * `$variableName` - The variable to store the message body (string or null).

Reviewer: when is `null` saved?
